126

which mast pass in regnier sequence seem the sacrificor
through the m'ctirn to the deity, or vice nerse. tf this is the
trae implanation — and at present it may he said to hold
thr field —- then tho entrence enactness of theRomanritnol
was a snrvioai from nn age when this strangeferlingwas
a reality; hnt no inore than a snrvinat, sor, so sar asI
con discover, the Roman idea was rather that the deity to
whom the ritnal was addressed was in some way offended
hy the omission. The dynamio notion is lost, is it ever were
there, ared its place hns hren tahen hy one that we may
perhaps call theologicam Bnt however that ncny he, the cntprit
was regarded ns in a stote os sin or imparity, ,‘nn itre
socri', and had to get rid os this sinorimpnretyhy another
sacrifice hesme the whole ritnal conid he started ajresh
t‘trcsccmart) 1). According to the ‘dynamio’ theory ofsncrifice,
we might naturally enprct thet the viatim, asheing destined
to carry away the nnholiness (or whatever we choose tocall
it) of the cnlprit, wonld he hnrnt whole, not offered to the
deity in the form os enta, or caten hy the sacrificers. Bnt
this does not scene to hane hren the case.'’ ¹Ex verbis allatis

satis apparet, quid quod ad succidaneas et instaurationes de
dynamica doctrina sit censendum. Nam praeterquam, quod
res tota nimis complicata atque intricata est, ut revera „pri-
mitiva” habeatur ²), atquo certo certius non valetin omnibus
sacrificiis 3), - omnium ultimo ioco ea sententia mihi videtur

1) Minus recte3 nam ipsa instauratio pro piaculo est. Vide quae
dixi p. 64.

2) Cf. Le Roy, la ecoctam des Primitiss‚ p. 322: „cette thdorieytarait
trop correptore et est trop trandidit yonr tire triniatim: c’est nm the'orie
de sociologne enroytieru¹¹ In memoriam revoco, le Roy por longum vitae
spatium inter nigritas vixisse satis primitivos. ·

3) Multum discrepant inter sepositi de sacrificiorum apud primiti-
vos origine. Cf. Lang, the reaching of rengione, pi 257 sq.; Robertson

’ Smith, the rehgrion os the Scrnites, p. 213 sq.; Frater, tho golden hoagh,

II, p. 397, sed et p. 459 sq.; Thomson, der Trng dos Promethens in
Arch. f. Rctcytoresntss, XII, p. 472.Magnopere mihi probantur LeRoy,
hh, p, 321 sq. 3 Lagrange, e'tndes snr les reh'giens stantionis, p. 244 sq.;
Schmidt, der Ursyrrcng dor Gottesidee, p. 160 sq. Minime autem mihi
certum videtur, multifarios illos primitivarum aliarumque gentium

 

